---
title: 'Stationary RNG'
description: 'RNG stationary Pokemon in Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum'
slug: 'emulator-dppt-stationary'
subCategory: 'Emulator'
---

This guide assumes that you know how to use PokeFinder to find a target frame, to hit your initial seed and how to advance frames. This guide will focus on the methods for Stationary Pokemon in DPPt and how to deal with special cases.

First, Stationary Pokemon are split into two methods. Method 1 and Method J (Stationary). To make the difference between Method 1 and Method J Pokemon, you have to see if your target instantly triggers a battle. if it's the case it's a Method J (Stationary), otherwise it's a Method 1. For example, Roamers are method 1 because they don't trigger a battle when they are generated, you have to find them. Here's a list of Method 1 Pokémon. Anything else is Method J : 

   - Method 1:

     - Starter Pokemon
     - Cynthia's Togepi Egg
     - Fossil Pokemon from Mining Museum
     - Riolu Egg from Riley
     - Eevee from Bebe
     - Porygon from Veilstone
     - Cresselia, Mesprit, Articuno, Zapdos, and Moltres
     - Pokemon Ranger Manaphy Egg

Now, let's talk in detail how some specific cases works. In general, you'll just have to hit the right initial seed, advance to the right frame and then trigger the encounter. However some of them are not that easy. So the most important is to check these cases before going for them.

**Distortion World Giratina (Method J)**

- Every time the Distortion World is loaded the frame advances by 11. If you're doing advances through the Journal or Chatter your starting advance will be 23 (It will be 12 if you're advancing the frame through the Journal without accessing it from the menu, i.e. when it first appears when starting the game).

- The recommended procedure would be to start the game (loading the Distortion World map once), open the menu, and do either Chatters or Journal flips as if the starting frame is 23, then engage in battle (loading the Distortion World map a second time).

I didn't change the numbers because idr, thanks PokeFinder's changes

**Cresselia/Mesprit (Method 1)**

- Cresselia and Mesprit are generated by Method 1 and have a starting frame of 5. Their data is generated once you talk to them and they fly off, so save in front of them and do your frame advances once you've confirmed your seed then talk to them to release them. If aiming for a frame of 100 you'd need to do 100-5=95 advances through either Journal flips or Chatters before talking to them to release them.

Same here i didn't changes the numbers because idr

**Kanto Birds (Method 1)**

- The birds are Method 1 Pokemon. Their data is generated after talking to Professor Oak and releasing them. Each bird has a different starting frame i.e. Moltres is 1, Zapdos is 6 and Articuno is 11.

- Choose one bird (preferably Moltres) and do your seed verification and frame advancements before releasing it. Once that's done, capture your target bird and KO the other two. Defeat the Pokemon League and head back to Oak. The remaining two birds will be generated in the same order and will have starting frames of 1 and 6, so if Moltres was caught Zapdos would now be on frame 1 and Articuno would be on frame 6. Do the usual delay hitting and frame advancements before talking to Oak to get the next bird, catch it and KO the bird you weren't going for and do the same thing you did to revive and capture the last bird.

Same here

**Manaphy Egg (Wondercard IVs RNG)**

- The Manaphy Egg is received like a Wondercard Pokemon, but it uses the Method 1 generation. The Wondercard follows the usual initial frames. It has a shiny check on it that prevents the hatched Manaphy from being shiny normally, but there is a way to bypass this check and get a shiny Manaphy. You'll need to know the PID of the IV spread you're going for. Once you have it, you'll need a save file that isn't the one your Manaphy Wondercard is on, and has this PID shiny. Do the RNG manipulation and receive the Egg, and trade it to this game. Hatch it in the other game and if you did it correctly, you should now have a shiny Manaphy. To summarize, if you want a shiny Manaphy in game A:

- Find out what shiny PID you have in game A.

- RNG a TID / SID save in game B.

- Trade the Egg from game B to game A.

- Hatch the Egg in game A.

- Congratulations, you now have a shiny Manaphy!
